You know, when we talk about progressive, let's talk about being progressive. Walking distance of here is Mother Emanuel Church, nine people shot dead by a white supremacist. Bernie voted five times against the Brady Bill and wanted a waiting period... No, let me finish. A waiting period of 12 hours. I'm not saying he's responsible for the nine deaths, but that man would not have been able to get that weapon with the waiting period had been what I suggest until you are cleared. In addition to that, being progressive, he thought Barack Obama -- he wanted a primary-- he said we should primary Barack Obama, someone should, and, in fact, the president was weak and our administration was in fact not up to it. Look, folks, this is -- let's talk about progressive. Progressive is getting things done, and that's what we got done. We got a lot done
Well, first of all, the latest poll I saw, my numbers -- I'm still 15 points ahead, the latest poll.
Well, it depends which -- look, I've earned the vote, I've worked like the devil to earn the vote of the African-American community, not just here but across the country. I've been coming here for years and years, creating jobs here, making sure that the port, for example, that employs one in 11 people, we put $500 million, in our administration, just into this county. We've created jobs for people.
The people know me. My entire career has been wrapped up in dealing with civil rights and civil liberties. I don't expect anything. I plan to earn the vote. I'm here to ask. I'm here to earn it. But, folks, I intend to win in South Carolina, and I will win the African-American vote here in South Carolina.
I will win South Carolina.
Whoa. Whoa. Whoa.
I guess the only way you do this is jump in and speak twice as long as you should.
Here's the deal. Here's the deal.
Look, a guy who's a friend of mine down here named Fritz Hollings -- he passed away -- he said, you want to know what a woman will do, look what they have done. Look what they have done.
You talk about -- concerned about race. Well, my good friend on the end of this platform, he, in fact, bought a system that was a private prison system, after, after he knew that, in fact, what happened was, they hog-tied young men in prison here in this state.
They, in fact, made sure that, in Georgia, they did not have health care for the people who were being held. They, in fact, went on, and he said, after he knew that, he bought it. And then he said he was proud of his accomplishment.
You talk about what we're talking about with Bernie. Bernie, in fact, hasn't passed much of anything. The fact of the matter is...
Here's the deal.
I'm not out of time. You spoke over time, and I'm going to talk.
Here's the deal.
Here's the deal.
The fact of the matter is, look at what's happening here. Look at what's happening here. We have to win the Senate back.
And, by the way, I went into all of those races that got 41 new Democrats. The majority of them are supporting me for president and endorsing me.
Because I'm the only one that ever got it done nationally. I beat the NRA twice. I got assault weapons banned. I got magazines that could not hold more than 10 rounds in them. I got them eliminated. Except we had a thing called an election with hanging chads in Florida and it was not reauthorized.
In addition to, that I passed the Brady Bill with waiting periods. I led that fight. But my friend to my right and others have in fact also gave into the gone manufacturers, absolute immunity. Imagine if I stood here and said we'd give immunity to drug companies. We would give immunity to tobacco companies. That has caused carnage on our streets, 150 million people have been killed since 2007 when Bernie voted to exempt the gun manufacturers from liability. More than all the wars, including Vietnam, from that point on.
Carnage on our streets. And I want to tell you, if I'm elected, NRA, I'm coming for you, and gun manufacturers, I'm going to take you on and I'm going to beat you. I'm the only one who has done it.
I wrote that law.
I wrote the bill, the Violence Against Women Act...
... that took out of the hands of people who abused their...
Let's look at the fact check...
The only thing that the boyfriend loophole is was not covered. I couldn't get that covered. You, in fact, when you were -- as a senator tried to get it covered and Mitch McConnell is holding it up on his desk right now, and we're going to lose the Violence Against Women Act across the board.
Two ways. Number one, my entire life I've been involved with the black community. I was a public defender.
I worked in the projects, I came along, and the first thing I did as the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, extended the Voting Rights Act eventually for 25 years. And I have been deeply involved. And my first effort I had as a councilman was doing away with red-lining in the county.
The way we do this, we've got to help them create wealth, and that's why we double the amount of money that is available for young entrepreneurs and black entrepreneurs, are as successful as any other group of people in the country. We go from 1.5 billion to $3 billion, taking $30 billion off the sidelines. That's how you create wealth.
Secondly, I provide for the opportunity for first-time home buyers to be able to have a $15,000 tax credit so they can get the mortgage at the front end and be able to keep it. Thirdly, I go after those people who are involved gentrification, because what's happening is we're moving people out of their neighborhoods in ways that in fact make no sense. They're being bought out. You cannot find a place to live.
And thirdly, I make sure that with regard to housing, we allow people -- look, right now if you live in a black neighborhood and you have the same exact house as the guy across the street in a white neighborhood has, your house is valued significantly less than the white, the same exact house. We've got to deal with the institutional racism.
I note how you cut me off all the time but I'm not going to be quiet anymore, OK?
Look, one of the things we have to do, we have a thing in the Defense Department called DARPA, a special operation thing to find out all the things we have to deal to make us safer. They came up with the internet, I mean, they came up with the internet, they came up with the whole idea of stealth technology.
I'm going to do the same thing at the National Institute of Health. We're going to focus at least $50 billion over the first five years on -- focusing on obesity, diabetes, Alzheimer's, and cancer. And we're going to make that investment because no one else is willing to make that investment.
We can, in fact, find cures if we make the investment, and we can get that done. The American people support it. Even Republicans will support it. We have to focus on extending life, saving life, and making people -- put them in a position to be able to live longer and more securely.
What we did with Ebola -- I was part of making sure that pandemic did not get to the United States, saved millions of lives. And what we did, we set up, I helped set up that office in the presidency, in the president's office, on -- on diseases that are pandemic diseases.
We increased the budget of the CDC. We increased the NIH budget. We should -- and our president today -- and he's wiped all that out. We did it. We stopped it.
And the second thing I'd point out to you is that what I would do immediately is restore the funding. He cut the funding for CDC. He tried to cut the funding for NIH. He cut the funding for the entire effort.
And here's the deal. I would be on the phone with China and making it clear, we are going to need to be in your country; you have to be open; you have to be clear; we have to know what's going on; we have to be there with you, and insist on it and insist, insist, insist.
I could get that done. No one up here has ever dealt internationally with any of these world leaders. I'm the only one that has.
No, I would not. And I spent more time with Xi Jinping than any world leader had by the time we left office. This is a guy who is -- doesn't have a democratic, with a small D, bone in his body.
This is a guy who is a thug, who in fact has a million Uighurs in "reconstruction camps," meaning concentration camps. This is a guy who you see what's happening right now in -- in Hong Kong, and this is a guy who I was able to convince should join the international agreement at the Paris agreement because, guess what, they need to be involved.
You can cooperate and you can also dictate exactly what they are, when in fact they said "We're going to set up a no-fly zone, that you can't fly through our zone.
He said, "What do you expect me to do," when I was over there.
I said, "We're going to fly right through it. We flew B-1 bombers through it. We've got to make it clear. They must play by the rules...
... period, period, period.
Barack Obama was abroad, he was in a town meeting, he did not in any way suggest that there was anything positive about the Cuban government. He acknowledged that they did increase life expectancy. But he went on and condemned the dictatorship. He went on and condemned the people who, in fact, had run that committee.
He also made sure to make it clear -- and by the way, I called to make sure that I was prepared to -- I never say (INAUDIBLE) my private conversations with him, but the fact of the matter is he, in fact, does not, did not, has never embraced an authoritarian regime and does not now.
This man said that, in fact, he thought it was -- he did not condemn what they did.
What did you tell them?
How about Cuba or Nicaragua?
Period.
I would make them pay for it, and I would make them pay for it economically. They are engaged now, as I speak, in interfering in our elections. They were engaged, and when we -- when, in fact, we were -- the last election in 2016 against Hillary, they were. There's no question.
This man stood before the whole world, turned to the Russian leader and said, why in God's name would this man ever interfere in our elections? Give me a break. Seventeen intelligence agencies said he did. When we got the information, we went to the committee in the Senate that's responsible for knowing these issues and dealing with them.
We went to Mitch McConnell and said join us and point out what is happening here. He said, no, we want no part of it. And if we had moved -- we didn't have all the information at that time until after the election was over. And, so, the idea the bipartisan committee said we could have done more, theoretically that's true, but the fact of the matter is we didn't have the information until the end. And so, look, we, in fact, should be imposing sanctions on Russia now for their interference.
You don't negotiate with a dictator, give him legitimacy without any notion whether he is going to do anything at all. You don't do that. Look what happened. He gave this dictator -- he's a thug -- legitimacy. We've weakened the sanctions around the world against holding us -- committing people not to trade, if anything from oil to parts -- that can deal with providing missile technology. And what's happened? It's been weakened.
I would be in Beijing, I would be calling to -- I would be speaking with Xi Jinping. I would be reassigning the relationship between the Japan and South Korea, and I would make it clear, I would make it clear to China, we are going to continue to move closer to make sure that we can, in fact, prevent China -- prevent North Korea from launching missiles to take them down.
And if we don't -- why am I stopping? No one else stops.
It's my Catholic school training.
Yeah, gentlemen don't get very well treated up here.
When you get knocked down, get up. And everyone is entitled to be treated with dignity, no matter what, no matter who they are.
My -- also, that everyone should be represented. Everyone -- and no one's better than me and I'm no better than anyone else. The fact is, what we should be doing -- we talked about the Supreme Court. I'm looking forward to making sure there's a black woman on the Supreme Court, to make sure we in fact get every representation.
Not a joke -- not a joke. I pushed very hard for that.
And my mother's motto was -- she said, "You know, you're defined by your courage; you're redeemed by your loyalty." I am loyal. I do what I say.
I have more hair than I think I do.